[preface]
[[preface_chap]]
== Last Words

There are now exactly 200 posts on this blog. I think that’s enough. I set out a year ago to say some things that no one else around seemed to be saying, and I’ve said them. To write more now would only be to dilute the message, to make it too large and unwieldy for consumption. The archive is still small enough that you can read it from start to finish within a reasonable amount of time, and you will have that time...
...as promised on several previous occasions, I do in fact intend to delete everything on January 31st, the one-year anniversary of this blog. I have a secret identity to protect and each day that passes poses an additional risk. People have emailed me asking to have the archives preserved in various forms... the answer is no. It’s all here now. If you want to read it, read it now. If you want someone else to read it, make them read it now. If you want to email me for advice about your girl problems etc., don’t. I am done with that. Read the archives and your questions will most likely be answered there. I have given advice for a year and it’s time to move on. Everything will go on the 31st. After that, who knows... I might still be tempted to write something, but I promise nothing except that I will leave the front page auto-updating blogroll up for your convenience.
There is a time for everything, and there’s a time to move on. I have had a great year with all of you, and writing a blog has been an incredibly educational experience for me. I warmly recommend it to each and every one of you. The teaching and communication skills I’ve developed doing this will enhance the quality of my days for the entire remainder of my life. Who knows, maybe one day they’ll make me millions. Maybe not. As the legacy of a youth spent immersed in a hustler’s ambition, I still have a weakness for money, so if someone offered me a book deal or linked a million people to my website, I probably couldn’t resist the temptation to keep writing, but barring that, I feel like I’m ready to leave this behind and turn my eyes toward a future of comfortable obscurity...
I don’t really care that much whether people listen to me. I used to think, once upon a time as a young lad, that I’d make a name for myself, do something grand and impressive, change the world and all that stuff. I don’t care about that anymore. Now, I’d rather not be famous. The more I’ve learned, the more I’ve come to lean toward the conclusion that the best thing in the world is for the world to leave you alone.
There is ultimately nothing to accomplish in life. You don’t need to be rich or well-liked or of prestigious social standing. You don’t need much of anything to be happy. You just need to focus on being happy, because you can only do one thing at a time in life. If you try to do more than that, nothing gets done because your intentions conflict with each other, one hand pushes against the other. You must choose. Career or family, money or love, success or happiness... you cannot have it all. You can really only have one thing in life, and you’d better choose carefully.
You can choose money, spend all your days in gradually expanding offices and finally die of a heart attack in a board meeting while your gold-plated Ferrari sits quietly in the garage of your fifty-room mansion in the most exclusive neighborhood in the state.
You can choose family, be buried in a 2-for-1 bargain plot with your children weeping over your headstone and be as forgotten as a dead squirrel in the forest in a matter of generations.
You can choose anything you want in life and probably get it, but you can only completely achieve one thing. If you split your priorities, you will achieve split results as well. You can have a little bit of money, a little bit of prestige, a little bit of family and a little bit of everything else, but none of them will be complete for you. If you want 100% success with anything, that thing must comprise 100% of your priorities. Each goal you set for yourself takes away from all your other goals, because circumstances will always force you to further one at the expense of another and to choose between them every day.
My advice to you is to focus on happiness, on enjoying life. You probably don’t want to hear this, but this means you will not have money or status or anything else. Conversely, focusing on money, status or anything else means you will not achieve happiness. Happiness is not success. Happiness is the opposite of conventional success. True happiness doesn’t look like this:
